# 1.1 Think About Time

## Which time management and productivity ideas did you learn about?
After watching all of the videos provided in the Think About Time assignment, I learned some new techniques and also revisited some old techniques that I was already familiar with. In regards to new techniques, I learned about Creating a Habit from Charles Duhigg. In the short video, I learned that contrary to the popular saying, "Fake it till you make it" it is often more beneficial to first accomplish the behavior/habit and the cognitive change will follow. He gives the example of an individual that behaves like a nice person will eventually become a nice person.

I also learned about the idea of tiny habits creating a big change from BJ Fogg. BJ presents in his TED Talk about the idea of pairing a small behavior with an already existing habit to eventually make that behavior a habit. An accumulation of small habits will eventually lead to big changes within ones life. He provides the audience with an example of flossing teeth. After pairing the behavior of flossing one tooth after you brush and rewarding yourself, the behavior of flossing after brushing will become automatic without the need for any reward.

As for preexisting techniques that I was already familiar with, I learned more about the Pomodoro Technique and the Growth Mindset. I experimented with the Pomodoro technique a few years back but it didn't grow on me. Sometimes I would be heavily into the work I was doing and after the set time, I would take a break and lose my flow. Other times I wasn't in the flow and forcing myself to do work within the time frame produced bad results. As for the growth mindset technique, I love it. I just finished reading Mindset by Carol Dweck and I'm working everyday to establish a growth mindset in all the facets of my life. 

## What is "Time Boxing?" How can you use it in Phase 0?
 The Pomodoro technique is a style of time boxing. Time boxing is when a person or team sets a time limit of working towards a goal. After the designated time is up, the team or person reflects on the work completed to reach the goal so they can self-assess progress and make changes to plans to help achieve the goal. In application to Phase 0, I can use time boxing to help me set aside time to work and time to self-reflect on the goal. My adjustment to using the technique would be to use each lesson as a time box. Instead of a designated time, I would complete a lesson and then reflect on what I have just completed and how it related to the goal I have set.

## How do you manage your time currently?
Even before DBC I researched a lot of different ways to help me manage time and be more productive. The most effective way that works for me right now is to set up a schedule of the days activities the night before. 

The night before, I sit down before going to bed and run through the next day. The structure of the habits I have on a day-to-day basis are already preset on my schedule. Reading and coding times are habits so I already reserve the time to do them each time. Besides those two habits, I try to wake up and go to sleep everyday at the same time so my biological clock maintains a healthy schedule. Other than the habits I have, I look at my calendar and set time out for any events or appointments that I have to attend. Presetting my schedule the night before helps me prepare for the next day immediately after I wake up. I know time I must wake up, I know what time I need to be at places, and I know what I must be doing. It helps me manage time effectively and helps me maintain the habits that I have to help me change. 

## Is your current strategy working? If not, why not?
As discussed above, my current strategy is working and I expect to maintain the strategy while working on Phase 0 as well as the rest of Dev Bootcamp. 

## Can/will you employ any of them? If so, how?
I learned a lot of new techniques and strategies in the lesson. The strategy that I most want to work on, that I had knowledge of before DBC is the growth mindset. Everyday I try to cancel out any negativity I have in my life and focus on having a growth mindset. When faced with challenges, I work to overcome them with time and effort. My mentality is shifting from just doing things to actually doing them with the intention of learning something. If I watch a video or read an article and I can't recall what was discussed, I immediately reread it. I'm not there yet, but I hope to work on my growth mindset throughout my time at DBC and for the remainder of my life. 

What is your overall plan for Phase 0 time management?
Since I don't have to work, my overall plan is simply to go to the library for 8 hours a day and work on DBC material like its my job. I develop a schedule the day before with any additional events that I have to attend, but decided that I am focused on going to the library (better environment) and working. The problem that I run into is being distracted easily. I self diagnosed myself with some sort of attention disorder and I can't maintain focus on a task for more than 15 minutes. I'm trying to become a better person each day and improve my focus and willpower but it's still a work in progress. Hopefully the enjoyment of coding will drown out any distractions that I may face.